A rinse-and-suck-sound is presented, which conveys cytological material to a special filter mechanism. The heart of the system is a well-known filter, an electric pump, and a new constructed vacuum chamber. After Papanicolaou staining the filters are being cleared and allow a light-microscopical judgement. A reduction of possibilities of error in exfoliative cytology can be noticed.


To investigate the myelinotoxicity of cerebropsinal fluid in multiple sclerosis, we used an in vivo model of the myelinated central-nervous-system tract of tadpoles for quantitative double-blind tests of 46 cerebrospinal-fluid samples. Groups of xenopus tadpoles were injected with cerebrospinal fluid near the optic nerve. Forty-eight hours later, whole mounts of optic nerves were prepared, and a differential interference microscope was used to count myelin lesions. Cerebrospinal-fluid samples from 60 per cent of the patients with an acute attack of definite multiple sclerosis had myelinotoxic activity. This activity correlated best with the severity and duration of the disease, rather than with gamma-globulin or total protein concentrations. Activity was negative in 85 per cent of cerebrospinal-fluid samples from a control group with other neurologic diseases. This assay is a useful method for investigating myelinotoxic factors of cerebrospinal fluid in patients with multiple sclerosis, but was not helpful diagnostically.


An alpha fetoprotein assay is useful in diagnosing open neural-tube defects.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is urged to establish guidelines for reagent licensing so that this test can be available throughout the country.  Correct data for fetuses of 15-16 weeks' gestation are now complete.  With this data and available alpha fetoprotein, the test could be run at individual medical centers and hospitals.


An increased diuresis was induced in each of four healthy subjects by intravenous infusion of urea, saline and sodium bicarbonate and by an oral water load. The excretion of a low molecular weight protein (LMW-protein), beta2-Microglobulin (beta2mu), was determined by a radioimmunoassay, the urinary concentrations of the protein being in the range 0.007-0,3 mug/ml. The hourly excretion of beta2 mu was not significantly influenced by varying loads of water, sodium, and osmoles which suggests that the tub ular reabsorption of LMW-proteins is stable under these conditions and that even a moderately increased excretion of such proteins may reflect a distrubed proximal tubular function.


Papanicolaou smears from the cheeks and tongues of 790 alcoholic patients were evaluted for possible associations between cytologic features and cigarette consumption. The findings appear consonant with the view that microscopic changes are frequent in clinically unremarkable areas of the mouth and that tobacco induces some of the cellular changes to which its use has been clinically and epidemiologically related.


A personal series of 28 cases of malabsorption with villopathy (22 Gee, 1 Whipple, 1 alpha-chain, 1 hypogammaglobulinaemia, 3 not yet diagnosed) is presented. The response to a gluten-free diet is the essential clue to diagnosis. Where sensitivity is not found, diagnosis becomes difficult and requires careful immunological, histopathological and parasitological investigation, which is not always conclusive. The main features of the series are indicated, along with the criteria employed in the diagnosis of some unusual forms.


A new antigen antibody system the e Ag and Ab has been investigated by immunodiffusion and counterelectrophoresis in the serum of 509 subjects. Those included 242 patients with polyarteritis, acute chronic or fulminant hepatitis; 85 hemodialysis HBs Ag carriers and 182 asymptomatic HBs Ag carrier blood donors. Neither e Ag nor anti- e were detected in any of the non hepatitis B virus associated cases. Counterelectrophoresis was found to be more sensitive than immunodiffusion and detected either e Ag or anti- e in 24 p. cent more cases. e Ag was found among HBs Ag positive patients with polyarteritis, chronic hepatitis or under going hemodialysis. Anti- e was observed in 28 p. cent to 66 p. cent of asymptomatic HBs Ag carriers. The study of the nature and prognostic significance of e Ag and anti- e appear of major importance in the understanding and follow up of HB virus infections.


Activity of RNA-dependent DNA polymerase (RDDP) from avian myeloblastosis virus (AMV), either in purified form or in virus lysates, was increased by phosphorylation. Stability of RDDP in lysates buffered with phosphate was much greater (no loss of activity in 48 hours at 4 degrees) than that in lysates buffered with Tris-Cl (76% loss). Activity lost in the Tris-buffered extracts was completely restored by phosphorylation. The findings suggested that AMV RDDP activity is influenced by the degree of phosphorylation of the enzyme or enzyme-associated proteins and that this chemical modification is mediated by protein phosphokinase and phosphoprotein phosphatase present in crude extracts of purified AMV. Application of these results provided the basis of procedures whereby RDDP can be recovered in significantly higher yield and purity than formerly.


A sequence of 89 nucleotides from rabbit beta-globin mRNA has been determined and is shown to code for residues 107 to 137 of the beta-globin protein. In addition, a sequence heterogeneity has been identified within this 89 nucleotide long sequence which corresponds to a known polymorphic variant of rabbit beta-globin.Images


The design, analysis, and findings of a field test of a methodology for monitoring quality of nursing care are presented. Quality care scores for types of patients (self-care, partial care, complete care, intensive care), types of units (medical, surgical, medical-surgical, pediatric, and intensive care), and shifts (day, evening, and night) showed the method to be useful.


The clinical manifestations of hyperthyroidism have suggested to physicians for many years that the sympathetic nervous system may be involved in their production. Despite this, the precise interrelationship between the thyroid gland and the sympathetic nervous system has never been defined but controlled investigations have shown that hypersensitivity to catcholamines does not occur in animals or man with artificially produced thyrotoxicosis. In recent years beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs, and in particular propranolol, have been used in patients with hyperthyroidism. Evidence exists that they control some of the peripheral manifestations of the disease, including nervousness, palpitations, tachycardia, increased cardiac output and tremor, but they do not appear to affect the underlying thyrotoxic process itself. Propranolol has been used with sucess in the treatment of acute hyperthyroid crisis, in pre-operative preparations for thyroidectomy, for the control of symptoms and signs following the administration of radioactive iodine therapy and antithyroid drugs, during the period of diagnostic thyroid investigations and occasionally as the sole therapy. The supportive role of propranolol in the management of hyperthyroidism is now established and in some instances such as radioactive iodine therapy, it has enabled improvements in the existing methods of treatment to be achieved.


The properties of an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase (an RNA-dependent DNA nucleotidyltransferase), which occurs ubiquitously in the allantoic fluid of uninfected, leukosis-virus-free eggs, are described. It is shown that the enzyme can synthesize faithful transcripts from natural RNA (globin mRNA). By biochemical and immunological methods, the enzyme can be clearly distinguished from the reverse transcriptases of the known chicken RNA tumor viruses and therefore seems to be a member of a so far unknown class of chicken polymerases.

